Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you very much. Again, welcome. Now, we are going to
go over the unconvinced heart-enstruck teaching from the Mahatma Samye Ling monastery, which
is the essential teaching of the Great Teacher, Buddha Shabtamuni, Narapemma Samma, as well
as all the great masters following the footsteps of the Great Teacher of the Buddha Shabtamuni
and all the lineage masters in their voice, in their wisdom, in their compassion. We are
trying to also brighten up our practice, our journey, in our path. And for that very reason,
we have these opportunities and situational circumstances, so therefore, again, we are
going to reactivate our joy and appreciation, and as well as both each other and a few realizations
of the way reality, all these phenomena are, and which is in the Vedayana teaching, and
as well as all the great masters often mentioned, it is already enlightened status, all three
regular status. So activating those, or at least then opening our kind of mind and heart
toward that, not completely closed, that is very important for the practitioners. And
with that, we followed again in the teachings. And the teaching is then, again, we can look
to this teaching, but as actually I'm going, I'm putting all the teachings, all the practices,
as all the great masters of the practice lineage, all the new masters, I'm trying to do that
way, I'm following that, so as much as I can, which is three nobles, three nobles, and which
also encompasses three essentials of the practices. And we have these three nobility, every
practice
comes, our practice, meditation comes in everything perfect for the purpose to getting
enlightenment,
to benefit all the living beings. Again, to get enlightenment, to benefit all the sentient
beings, it looks like a very long journey to help or benefit the sentient beings, that
is not the case. We are going to help and benefit for all the living beings right now,
with our motivation, with our intention. That is what is known as the Bodhi Chantals. Right
now, we are going to really help and support to all the beings. And now, again, as I said
yesterday, this motivation is the foundation, as in the teachings said, is the foundation,
and that's something we also experience ourselves with. Everything what we do, we don't do
without anything, we do without intention, we thought. Thought, about everything what
we do, whether we are going by the Bodhi, or whether we are verbally talking, is all
initiated from our mind. That this invisible mind, or emptiness mind, is instrumental to
direct our every activities. Ask yourself, or ask ourselves, it's true or not. That's
the greatest teacher, but that's it. It's true. We don't do anything blindly, or without
our thought. Thought, everything is really performed with mind. Therefore, to activate
our mind and reset our mind on the right direction, that is the beginning of the path, the journey
to the enlightenment, and the journey to benefit, to help all the living beings by compassion.
That is one. So, therefore, I also discussed a little bit yesterday about that motivation.
First is joy and appreciation. I discussed a little bit, and again, of course, we can
discuss those things in the later, as it comes in the teaching, that. And today, I'm going
to talk a little bit about Bodhicitta. How we talk Bodhicitta. Again, what is Bodhicitta?
Bodhicitta is a mind. Bodhi, jeta, is Sanskrit word. And in Tibet, it's translated ancient
time, those great, fast letters, emanated, fast letters. They are not regular, fast letters,
trying to struggle, trying to put the word, you know, all those things, trying to put
back into the, into the kind of play, the jigsaw balance, you know. Ancient, those great, fast
letters, such as, all those who came in, in the eighth century, as the disciple of the
Lord of Amalsambhava, great abode, Shandharakkita, or the Bodhisattva Shandharakkita, and Kinshasa
said perfectly, all the teachings that within that short period, which means, less than 100
years later, complete the body of the entire teaching of the Buddha, is the whole, completely
kind of transferred in the language of Tibet, that which is, kind of maybe, according to
this story, developed just a hundred years ago, hundred years before. Structural, the
way they translate it, the way they put them, words, this can be immediately, even throughout
the centuries, modern time too, really, really carried an exactly meaning of the word, meaning
of the teaching into the Tibetan foreign language at that time, and when you perfect it. They
are not just also scholars, as did, they created practitioners. The teaching absorbed and
completely
out in their minds, they burst with love and kindness and compassion for all living beings,
they don't want the earth humble and simple, with full of common sense, in full of knowledge,
caring and concerning and respecting to all living beings, that's what this great
emanated task letters, they translated this Bodhisatta of the Sanskrit word into Tibet,
Jangchok ji sin, Jangchok ji sin, this Jangchok ji sin, or the Bodhisatta, of course,
popularly use that terminology of the Sanskrit language in the Western English. In the English
it translated mind of the Buddha, or mind of enlightenment, mind of enlightenment, so that
means what, body is enlightenment, and jeddah is mind, mind of enlightenment, or mind of the Buddha
,
so that is what is what I'm going to talk today and remind you to all of us.
You all know this body, you all receive this teaching, including myself, it's nothing again
new, I'm talking, but we are again, as he said many times, we are friendly and reminded to each
other
that our transport, our travel, our beauty, this Bodhisatta is the essential teaching
of the great teacher, Buddha Shaptamuni, the entire teaching of the Buddha Shaptamuni
is the best upon both each other, because Buddha teaching is teaching of non-violence,
teaching of peace, teaching of the harmony, this teaching of peace and harmony, non-violence,
it's not just only selected guru, small guru, for all the beings, every beings,
they are longing to have peace and calm, peaceful, performant, really every one is longing,
so that is what really, this teaching is complete on that, that is what is,
so therefore, the entire Buddha teaching, the 45 years of teaching of the great teacher,
kindness teacher, companion teacher, Buddha taught a teaching that is best upon this,
the Bodhisatta, then in the Mahayana teaching, it is intensified that Bodhisatta, that kindness
thought,
very intensified, they highlight in the teaching, because again, in order to reach enlightenment,
order to become benefit for all living beings, as the great teacher, Buddha said, we have activated
our Bodhisatta, and Bodhisatta is like precious jewel, what great, again master, Shanti Deva
said in his teachings, Bodhisatta is like warriors, when you have that Bodhisatta,
can defeat all the obstacles, the negatives, the negatives, Bodhisatta is like wish-fulfilling
jewels,
it must fulfill all the wishes, for us, for our own self, for all the beings, how long,
until everyone reaches enlightenment, so it's everlasting wish-fulfilling jewels,
that's this great Master Shanti Deva said, Bodhisatta is like acumen techniques,
that the acumen technique, according ancient time in the teaching said, well changed,
that acumen change, small amount of the acumen really changed the huge iron in the gold,
this is like acumen, it will change our, this deluded, obscure duality, mind, completely as
enlightenment status, and Bodhisatta, this great Master said, Bodhisatta is like sail,
okay, then it will attract everyone to the other shores, save, save everyone, everything save
everyone, and then Bodhisatta is like fire of the end of the eons or the volcano fires,
that both will burn instantly all negatives,
negatives and obstacles, so therefore what this great, great Master Shanti Deva said,
for that reason everyone must be cherished, uphold this precious, the unique nature and beauty,
that is Bodhisatta, this Bodhisatta is not just only have the select group heads,
we all have them, every living we have the intelligent, only one we have to do,
we have to activate it with recognitions, we have to acknowledge ourselves,
so now what is that Bodhisatta, what is that Bodhisatta, what is the nature, what identity of
that Bodhisatta, in the teaching said, Bodhisatta is loving kindness, compassion with that thought,
loving kindness, compassion for all living beings, with that intention I like to get enlightenment,
I like to get, discover my own nature, and for that reason I'm going to also take care of Bodhis
atta,
whatever the obstacle one may interfere of my Bodhisatta, I'm going to avoid,
I'm going to not going to go under those interference of the obstacles, obstacles,
that is the Bodhisatta, so now that way again to simplify, Bodhisatta is loving kindness,
Bodhisatta is compassion, and Bodhisatta is wisdom, wisdom, as I said yesterday, what great master,
great teacher Murugamma Sambha said, these three are minds of Buddha, that is Buddha,
actually Buddha, what is Buddha, the enlightenment, this love, the compassion,
wisdom, this is really Buddha, this is Buddha, so where is that love and compassion, wisdom,
is within our nature of the mind, within your nature of the mind, and within the nature of the
mind too, we all have this, now we have to activate this, this spiritual time, our this nature of
the
mind of Bodhisatta for loving kindness and compassion, wisdom is shadowed, our caste,
by all our habitiveness or the deluded, this which is known as obscurations,
obscurations, obscurations is also nothing but is our mind, so now we have to use power of the
knowledge in the identity of our own call it or natural call it, the mind going to defeat in a
clean way our own minds in purity, this is similar using the technique as homopathic techniques,
using what in the teaching said, pile will stop the pile, iron will cut iron, okay, mind will
overcome
the mind, we don't have to look situation in circumstances other conditions from outside,
it's more powerful, more effective, more practical, therefore we have to activate our
this beautiful intention, beautiful intention which is now the Bodhisatta, again loving kindness
compassion, why we need love and compassion, first level love and compassion as I said already
is the nature of the mind, nature of the mind, negative emotions are not
nature of the mind according to the teaching of the buddhas and all the great masters,
they are obscurations, they're not nature of the mind, loving kindness, compassion, that nature of
the mind, it's all the nature of our mind, it's the buddha nature, wisdom and compassion,
compassion, so it's our nature, when we touch therefore when we touch with our nature, also
what it does, it brings ourselves more calm, peaceful happiness because in nature, it's authentic
nature, when we touch the unnatural quality of the mind and then what it brings, suffering,
sadness, stressful, anxiety, worry, then we need to become stronger, anger, jealous,
hated hopes, all those are coming, what it does, when we feel that, when we have that,
what are we feeling, we're sad, we're suffering, we're closed, we feel lonely, we will despair,
we're isolated, isolated because it's unnatural, unnatural, pollution is the pollution created
entirely our environment of the beautiful mental states, but is that creation is nothing but our
own creations, maybe somebody that created their consequences externally but fundamentally really
activated by our own self according to Buddha's teaching, so therefore this loving kindness,
compassion is we're touching to the nature, our essence and that how we can touch it is
again in the teaching said love and compassion, you should feel love and compassion to all the
living beings, everyone what they want, be happy, they want to be peace, they will be comfortable
and then relax, calm, everyone but yet no one is achieving that goal completely,
always struggling, always like kind of looks like climbing up the sandy mountains,
push steps goes up and push steps goes down, that is going on and on for a long time,
according to the greatest teacher, we've been doing that since the biggest times
and always we challenge and clarify between hope and fears, one after another, we're hoping
something but then something always appears, one after another, so that is really the how the
situation of almost every living beings are that for that very reason, then in the teaching said
feel great compassion, all these living beings, we have all the similar intention, similar desire,
similar wishes, therefore feel love and compassion, when we do that in our heart and mind, what we
're
doing, we're revealing our rich treasure of the nature of the mind, the treasure of the nature of
the mind is infinite, endless, when you reveal more love, it will come more love and more
compassion,
the resolved more joy, more peace, more harmonious, more friendships, everyone more friendly,
friends,
I will like to sorrow many friends, we should increase the more loving kind of the computer
or we should activate the body together, it will bring more friends, more friendships,
more fulfillment, all that, so this is what really therefore we in the teaching said we should
really
feel more love and kindness, compassion, plus in the buddha teaching of course you all know, no,
there is all the living beings being our parent, everyone since the biggest time we came in this
samsara, always we need parents and of course in the buddha teaching mentioned there is four
different
ways that we take the birth in this samsara, those are the four births, miraculous birth or the
instant birth, aid birth, warm birth, warm birth, and then mostial birth, n-o-i-s-t-u-r-e,
mostial birth, and what are those? Instant births in the buddha teaching
measured happening in the hell realm and God's realm and maybe, not maybe, in also sometimes
in the part of states, those are known as instant births, but God's realm, hell realm, part of
those
are we don't see, ourself, human are we don't have capability to see that, maybe certain people
have the capability or something like that, but otherwise we won't see, but it is there according,
then warm birth is human birth, most of the time and as well as animals are warm birth, many of the
animals, and then mostial births are also animals, so many insects are born according,
buddha's name most choose, birds, most of them, so that's it, aid birth is also many kind, it's
like
such as animals, all those like all, yeah many animals, aid birth, those are known as, so even
there is four different ways, you take the birth, but the aid birth as well as as warm birth need
barren most of the time, barren, and so therefore in the teachings said, how many times we talk
birth in this samsara, from the biggest time, great master Narayana said, and we put all this
full earth of the world as like clay and trying to put the, the rolled small earth or earth like
as a clay, from that clay we started rolling the clay as a size of the juniper seed,
if you start, if you're trying to build, make the build as side of the juniper seed from the
clay of the entire earth, still the clay of earth is not enough to put the number of our lifetimes
that we talk in this world and had the parents, still is not enough, it's short, short,
can you imagine how many times we talk the birth in this this world, most of that time,
most of that time the parents are kind, all kept, all that they kept us, nourished us,
protect us, booking the bird, bird and so forth, really they're so kind, they have the support,
they did their best, their best, they're not enlightened beings, sometimes they make mistakes,
but nevertheless they did their best to their childrens, their childrens, their loved ones,
all the parents, look to the animals, how much they're walking for their babies,
every cover abilities, whatever they have, they spend time, cover ability to provide their food
and make a nest, nest and then human world too, it's just, it's not just really one time,
every time like that, so therefore in Buddhism, of course you know these things, I'm not talking
something new things, therefore now we, I've got some kind of knowledge in the Muslims hiding in
my heart and the body, for that very reason I'm going to really help to all these living beings,
I'm going to remove their suffering and the difficulty troubles, I'm going to help and
support, to ignite their Buddha nature, so they can be benefited and well-accepted to go through
the samsara in the world and not just to go through the samsara where they come, but get
enlightened,
totally free from the old that, that's troubles in this challenge, challenges, therefore I'm going
to really develop the body together and I'm going to have more, more equipped to help to all the
sentient beings, for that reason I'm going to get enlightened, when we have to get enlightened, we
become the Buddha, you have more cover ability or when you have become the great bodhisattva, we
have
more cover ability and more tools way to help, because our wisdom is more stronger, more shiny,
our more skillful meaning, more techniques, the cover ability to breathe our loving kindness
completion into the action, that's how I move, move up, most of for that reason that I'm going
to get enlightened, for that reason what in the teaching said, by completion you're projecting
for all the living beings, by wisdom you're projecting to get enlightened and combined
target, wisdom and compassion, goes to target as like inseparable, as which is sometimes
named skillful meaning and a wisdom, combined target, that individually will go, fly very high
and defeated all the obstacles in the peaceful manners,
they truly they will become the winner, winner of the samsaras, and that's what in the teaching
offering said, said the warriors, conquerors, name of the great teacher Buddha has many different
names, conquerors, conquerors, dattagatas, dasgongs or whatever, and then as well as conquerors,
what means conquerors, it's not a conqueror that would defeat the world, commonly in the samsaras
or defeated the enemies, but this sort of enemy is, the obscurations, negative emotions are
obscurations, they're not just obstacles in the obstacles for a short time, but they've been
obstacles for us for the biggest times, for a long time, they're constantly making obstacles,
not just one day, two days, or a few hours, or once in a while, they are constantly obstacles,
but that is defeated by the power of the bodhicata, therefore they are known as conquerors,
jaravas in it, so that is really the bodhicata, now this bodhicata, where you develop bodhicata,
where we develop the bodhicata, those are known as, then there's three different, different kind of
divisions, I again highlight those divisions, and they pose three bodhicata, and that three
bodhicata, a chord in the intention, calling, and a willingness of the practice of the body,
or so body, body, body, bodhicata, more generally, I should say that, when you take the bodhicata
vows, when you take the bodhicata vows, with understanding and the significance and benefit
of the bodhicata, then there is, you can take the vows, you receive the vows from the linear
masters,
linear master who holds bodhicata vows, or with bodhicata vows, not just hold hold,
also who practices that, practicing the whole of the lineage of the bodhicata should receive
bodhicata vows, if situation and a sacrifice allow that, even is not happened immediately,
still, then we should practice this, when moment we develop that attitude, the bodhicata what I
said to you, and of course you already know, that time, what in the teaching said, that
individually
name is changed, that moment, that individually is known as bodhisattvas, bodhisattvas,
that is a Sanskrit word, and now that translated into to be scientific, simple,
and it translated as an English, courageous one for the enlightenment,
that is the bodhisattvas, bodhi is enlightenment, sattva means courageous ones,
now maybe you wonder why we need courageous, courageous we need it because we are going to
benefit all living beings, we are going to reverse our attitude of the way we think,
until now from the biggest times, from the biggest time until now what our attitudes,
always a thinking to one's own self, one's own self or one's kind of relatives and belongings,
that, that is known as kind of self-centered mind, according Mahayana teachings, self-centered mind
,
that we've been normally thinking all the time, and every sentence brings a thinking,
but that didn't achieve the goal, but really we want, always struggling, always it just fails,
and all that goes on and on, that didn't change, so now when we develop the bodhisattva in our
heart, that moment we reverse that attitude or intention from our heart, we think in certain
beings all others are more important than even ourselves, some of them, and that is known that
therefore is courageous ones, courageous one, not the timid ones, timid, self-centered mind
makes more timidness, more sharing our attitude, and our views become more closed, more tight,
when you have the body that is broke, our heart is open as the skies, our mind is open as the
spaces,
and as far as our mind and heart opens, that part, love and kindness, compassion, wisdom shines
freely every living beings, that's what is called courageous ones, how long they're going to shine,
not just the only short time, but until every living being reaching like that, until that love
is going to shine, and it's going bright up that, for that is courageous ones, and during that time
even your heart is open and bodhisattva is so open and flowing every direction, yet all the
sentient beings are not necessarily going to immediately accept their situations, therefore
we're not going to feel timidly disappointed, our love and compassion is unconditional love,
unconditional compassion, not expecting something return, or not expecting something kind of
acknowledgement, it's forever, as like open sky, as like sun, sun shines every direction,
even nobody says thank you, or I know that it shines, it clears, brilliant,
sky is open, it is blowing, the earth is strong remain, as like whatever it is,
like that, the compassion bodhicitta remains, therefore is known as courageous ones for the
enlightenment, so that is now really bodhicitta, once we develop that bodhicitta, or when we said,
then according to the attitude of the individualist, there is three bodhisattvas or bodhicittas,
those are, again of course you all know this, but I'm going to list that names, and
king-like bodhicitta, sailor-like bodhicitta, and shepherd-like bodhicitta, king-like bodhicitta,
sailor-like bodhicitta, king-like, I think you, I'm sure you know that, but sailor,
s-a-i-l-o-r, sailor, sailor-like bodhicitta, then shepherd, I think you understand what I'm talking
,
shepherd, s-h-e-r-p-p-b-b-e-r-t shepherd-like bodhicitta, those are the different kind of how those
individualists develop the bodhicittas, and what that now, these examples, what does that mean?
The teachings say it, king-like bodhicitta, those some bodhicittas, they are intelligent,
oh I like to, I like to benefit the help of all the sentient beings, but first I'm going to get
enlightenment, then I'm going to help, that didn't mean I'm not going to help anyone,
but they are kind of a little bit projecting, a little bit more to get enlightenment first,
and then going to benefit the help before the sentient beings, so that is known as
king-like bodhicitta, and what would that mean? Again it just says the kings, generally king or
the queens, when those people in the royal palace, both they have to be comfortable, they have to
be
settled, comfortable in a royal country, e-copyright, once that happens, then they're going to
help you, they're going to help you to the subject, so that use the example as like king-like bodh
icitta,
bodhicittas, those are the king-like bodhicittas, still like bodhicittas, I like to help all the
sentient beings, I like to get enlightenment, but same time I like to help to all the sentient
beings,
so I and all together, I like to get enlightenment, and that is the cell-like bodhicitta,
why again in the example, for example, when the cell takes us in their boat, cell him or herself
were also in the boat, and there also is taking us or the travel passengers also in the boat,
and together they went or they showed, so those are named, for example, as cell-like bodhicittas,
and now the next one, third one, is shepherd-like bodhicitta, shepherd how shepherd does in the
teaching said, and of course you, we all know that, shepherd goes up the animals, and first the
shepherd
will put the animals on the grassland, nice safe places, nice areas, there's no kind of, like all
those, those wild beasts were, beasts will disturb the animals, so it puts, kind of, nice areas,
looking safe, safe, put in safe places, and then shepherd him or herself, finally going to rest,
let's sit down on the ground, and similarly these bodhicittas or the bodhisattvas, they like to get
,
everyone get enlightenment, before they get enlightenment, and therefore, that's for that
reason, use the examples of as shepherd-like bodhicittas, those are the different kind of
willingness and attitude, how those individuals, what those great bodhisattvas individually,
intentionally, and that kind of, measure with, with those different terminologies to highlight,
but everyone, doesn't matter what, every bodhisattvas, and bodhisattvas, I have the bodhicitta,
bodhicitta, and to benefit all the sentient beings, to every living beings, when the moment we have
the bodhicitta, and what those are known as bodhisattva, all other names in the buddha's
teaching, in Mahayana teaching, many a time said, noble son and noble daughters, they become the
noble, we all become nobles, moment we develop the bodhicitta in our heart, before that we're
old, but now we have become the noble, because we touch our noble, of loving kindness, compassion,
and wisdom, that is being chined, chined, benefit to ourselves, benefit to all the beings,
therefore,
it is also named noble son, noble daughters, so that is again, really about the bodhicitta,
and then again, I will continually go over this meaning, and which is really so important,
bodhicitta is entirely bodhicitta, is best upon bodhicitta, but then, particularly in Mahayana
teaching, Vaidhyana teaching is best absolutely on bodhicitta, and for that reason, what is in
teaching said, if you have one things, one practices, that will be enough to get enlightened,
and benefit all the living beings, that is bodhicitta, if we don't have one thing,
which is bodhicitta, if we don't have that, no matter whatever teaching you have, whatever
practice you do, all the practices have become best upon all kind of self-important best practices,
it won't go far, far, and it really won't work what we're thinking to do, and for example,
Raziel teaching of the dzokchim, all Mahamadharic teaching, all it won't work, according to the
teachings, therefore, to make everything blended in perfectly, beautifully, all practices go
far from it, that is bodhicitta, bodhicitta is, if you use the examples of the modern time,
bodhicitta is lunch bed of space ships, space ships, lunch bed, and bodhicitta is fuel for the
space ships, without this, we won't go any further, and all again in S.N.T. teaching said,
it's all kind of, almost the best of the, the kind with self-important things, it won't go
far, and that is my talk for today, and thank you very much again for participating, and thank you
so much everyone for participating, thank you, thank you, thank you. Now we do, again, short
meditation.
[BLANK_AUDIO]